the reasonable man conforms to the world
the Unreasonable Man bends the world to
his will therefore all progress depends
on the unreasonable man my favorite
quotes oh my God it's so good and I'm
always telling people on my team like
because people often look at me and say
like you're being unreasonable yes but
like literally we all limit our we don't
even try because we think something is
impossible and therefore you guarantee
that it is it is literally shocking how
much farther you can go when you my wife
and I call it no [__] what would it
take just like ins you you put yourself
in problem solving mode rather than
problem finding mode which most people
live there and you're just like okay
there is a solution it might not be
something I'm willing to do but there is
a solution and when you get into that
mode and then actually have the
willingness to keep going it's freakish
what you can accomplish but most people
just never let themselves be that
aggressive
yeah I think I have a philosophy I teach
everybody in all my teams who have 105
companies now it's mind-boggling and all
these things radically different
Industries we're now doing almost seven
billion dollars in business I have no
business background but it's certain
core philosophy that allows you to grow
anything and but it starts with the
people themselves and my whole thing is
one choice is no choice two choices The
Dilemma there's always three choices
like you said I may not like the choice
but it's there but more importantly I
think it's getting people to see that
what they thought was possible
Impossible Is Possible the more you can
give people an experience like talks
cheap but I've done enough things in my
life with enough people at this stage
I've got a track record where it's like
I said it's gonna happen most people say
he's probably true it's probably likely
he's going to pull it off maybe I should
jump on board but the the mindset has to
be destroy any limitation and move
forward move forward move forward there
is a way move forward and I think uh if
you watch this it's like taking off on a
plane from you know I'm in Texas right
now if I flew from Dallas here to go to
Hawaii you're of course about 90 percent
of the time I'm a pilot I would have
every time of course oh my god of course
oh I should freak out oh my God I'm off
course again but you know you just tack
back and forth and you land exactly
where you want to be three four five
thousand miles you know away and I think
that's how we have to navigate but most
of us and especially during these
coveted times
most of us have been conditioned not to
take a risk people ask me all the time
what does it take to be happy
and I always tell them it's really
simple one word progress
progress equals happiness if you keep
growing you're going to feel alive and
if you keep growing you're going to have
more to give and when you're growing and
giving is when life is magnificent it
doesn't matter how many statues Oscars
they give you or Emmys or how much money
you have in the bank we've all seen
people had all those things and I get
the phone call because they're depressed
or somebody commits suicide in that area
so it's really an inner game and I think
that's what's missing for us today
everybody's focusing on the outside
world and how there's a lot of things in
the outside world you'll never be able
to control you can influence you can't
control it this your mind your emotions
your body
percent control over what you do with
these things and that's where the game
is won you win the inner game then you
win the outer game a lot of people spent
their life trying to win the Auto game
they won and they're miserable
so to me success without fulfillment is
the ultimate failure and so many people
are focused on success bill which to me
is like there's nothing wrong with it
but it's like success is getting what
you want fulfillment is living What
You're Made for you know and it's like
fulfillment and success they're not even
the same universe there's nothing wrong
with going for success but you really
got to figure out what you're made for
and nobody knows in the beginning
so you start where you are and you do
what's in front of you do what's next
then you keep growing until you start to
discover hey this is my real passion
this is my real hunger and drive and it
can change people go for five six seven
years and then they usually question
their business their career their their
body their relationships and then one of
two things happens they change direction
and feel renewed or they go no I got a
great deal here what the hell is wrong
with me and they recommit and they get
stronger but that's life and if you
don't grow
I don't give them how much you got going
for you're going to be miserable no man
I totally agree that's something that I
heard from you many years ago that I've
repeated so many times it's so true I
think the way that I first heard you say
it is progress is a foundational pillar
of human happiness yeah I was like damn
like that's so true that idea of it just
really sits at the foundation I want to
give you a Tony Robbins quote uh and
this is something going back to
something you were just saying that I I
agree with uh incredibly well or are
very much which is uh people have become
hypnotized by a culture of weakness
and I was like damn like Tony's calling
us out here uh I agree with that what
what is going on and how do we shake out
of it
well if you're a student of history
there is a cycle of history that is
plain as day
Good Times create weak people
weak people great bad times
bad times create strong people strong
people great great times this is the
cycle of History thousand years of Roman
history there's a great book I recommend
anyone read I read it in 1997 it's not a
beautiful read but you need to
understand it it's called the fourth
turning or you could read the book
Generations but it's about 700 Pages 800
Pages uh you know Bill Clinton gave me
that book and that's where I started and
it explains how our thinking our process
is so affected by the way we're raised
generationally the experiences we go
through so let me give you an example of
why we're having challenges today and
why I'm more than hopeful
let's say you were born in 1910 now
think of it this way first remember I
talk about pattern recognition pattern
utilization pattern creation what gave
Humanity its greatest jump in its
capacity was pattern recognition around
seasons
up until that time we were
hunter-gatherers barely able to survive
it all depend on what was happening in
the environment we were dependent on the
outside world
but once we understood the seasons that
planting in the springtime and then
taking care through the summer boy in
the fall you can reap and then there's
gonna be winter you gotta hang on to
this stuff so you can survive once we
recognize that pattern Humanity
transformed communities were created
eventually cities and countries and
states right so think of it this way
there's also a pattern of your history
as human
0-21 19 to 2021 is a springtime where
everything's easy it's easy to grow
growth happens you don't have to do
squat your body grows life grows and
some of us had a more protective
childhood some of us had no protection
we had to step up and take care of
things when we're seven or eight years
old but regardless overall it's a time
in which people look out for you you're
taught things you consume what you're
taught but once you come 19 20 21
roughly and sometimes at 16 for some
people 25 for others but you get the
picture you enter a new season of life
you go to the summertime where you start
testing and go well this is what I was
taught but do I really believe this [__]
you know this is what people say but now
I'm in a relationship you know and so
all of this this next 20 years is an
explosive growth period if you work at
it from 21 to 41. from 42 to 62 is a
reaping time if you planted really in
the spring and you pushed hard through
the summer you're gonna reap now if you
didn't plant in the springtime you're
going to weep in the season you know
you're going to be like I don't have any
money on any time in order to do where
am I going but that's a season of power
that's when you really start to be able
to lead companies businesses
environments and so forth and again some
people get there earlier some later but
at overall generationally that's it and
then 63 to 83 is winter and that winter
time is a little different for somebody
right now that time is maybe it's time
I'm an elder in the community now it's
time for me to mentor to communicate and
if you're lucky it goes 83 to say 103 or
the oldest living humans about 119 if
you were lucky enough to do that maybe
you get an extended period of time where
you enter the next Springtime so there's
season
that you gotta understand because it
because they plant in the Wind in the
winter I don't care how hard you work
you get no reward
if you bought a house sounds wonderful
in 2007 normally great 2007 probably not
so great you're probably just starting
to do okay in the last three or four
years right so there's a timing to
things there's a timing in your life
there's also timing in history
so imagine you're born in 1910
when would you come of age 19 years old
1929. what did you grew up with World
War one ended during that time the whole
world celebrated and the Roaring
Twenties began and you're in your teens
cars radios parties you can't wait to
turn 19 20 21 right and what happens for
that generation right at that stage of
Life the whole game The Wolves pulled
out from it and people are jumping out
of buildings the economy goes to the
floor we've got the Dust Bowl
put in there
because what happened when they were 29
1939 World War II and you and I are too
young to know it but those around know
that it looked like we were going to
lose Hitler was storming across Europe
it looked like Life as we know it was
over
and these people went overseas and
became Heroes they face such unbelief
they were they were thought as Flappers
they were thought as weak they were a
lot like a lot of the generation that
you see today you know the you know Z
generation not so much because they're
just coming up right but the millennial
generation by all the people I see him
as weak you know there's snowflakes or
this and they're that but they have
technology they have insights and when
the outside world is demanding enough
not yet because they're still fearful
they will grow and that's when things
change and so the season occurs so think
about the difference between the 30s and
the 40s
versus the 50s
versus the 60s as we came after 63 into
an American Summer is a different
mindset versus the 80s to the 2000s
2010. so we're right now halfway through
winter
we're in another winter it starts
financially now it's gone to health but
we're far from it it's going to be war
and it might be cyber War it might be
full on war but there's zero question
that China and the U.S are in a
collision course that's going to shape
the direction of humanity and so the
people that right now are alive today
are going to have to grow in that
environment I really think we're at a
season where there's going to be a whole
new level of growth and what I just want
to do is be one of them any sources that
can give people perspective because
here's the problem
a year ago people thought we were coming
out of you know got vaccines now and
we're coming out of covid and it's going
to be all over now people are excited
but now after going through two years of
this
there's a lot of people now that no
longer have a compelling future like you
know people talking about New Year's
resolutions most people don't even have
one because it's like they never follow
through anyway right but at least they
had something to look forward to they're
starting to get a learned helplessness
learn to helplessness something is so
bad over and over again you start
thinking the problem's permanent no
problem is permanent or you start
thinking the problem's pervasive because
I haven't handled my finances my whole
world's over because my relationship's
bad The Whole World's over your life is
bigger than that or all this is
happening because there's something
wrong with me when you get to that point
you stop trying
and so my goal right now is to shake
that up for people people need a new
perspective and you can't do it by just
sitting and thinking you've got to move
your body you got to change your energy
and your focus because low level of
energy I don't think I'm a game how
smart you are you're not going to use
all your ability but if I get you into a
higher state of being mentally
emotionally physically and all of a
sudden you start remembering who you are
and you start coming up with answers
that you never even thought were
possible before
the idea of remembering who you are is
something incredibly powerful there was
a uh Batman cartoon where he gets
amnesia and he gets put in like a a camp
basically a Work Camp and he can't get
out and then one day and he feels stuck
and weak and you know afraid and then he
something happens I don't remember what
triggers his memory and he remembers
that he's Batman and all of a sudden
just in remembering that he's Batman he
then takes the actions to fight his way
out and look I know it's a cartoon but
that has always resonated with me and
whenever I'm feeling anxious about
somebody something I always tell myself
remember who you are and there there's
so much power even though I know that
it's BS because I am also the guy that's
afraid but there's something incredible
human but you're really talking about
the most important concept and Lasting
change identity
we all Define ourselves in certain ways
and most of us defined ourselves years
ago and we haven't done an update and
now you're in an environment where
you're constantly told how bad it is how
terrible it is so that stimulates the
old part of the human brain the
fight-or-flight mechanism the part of
your brain is always looking through
what's wrong so you can hide from it you
know or you can fight it or you can
freeze and hope it doesn't notice or you
can run from it and so that part of our
brain is never going to make you happy
it's an important part there's no
saber-toothed tiger for us to run from
anymore or fight right not for most
people but now we get that about what
are people saying about me online or you
know or do I have enough money in a
country that even if you have very
little money in America even if you're
in quote unquote a poor environment you
know I I support I provide 100 million
meals a year I'm almost a billion meals
now I'm at 825 million meals to give you
an idea in the last seven years so I'm
in helping everyone I possibly can but
you got to help them here and here too
you know so I use the food as the excuse
to get into here and here and start
showing people what's possible and I
think we're in a place right now where a
lot of people are in this learned
helplessness and they don't realize you
know if you if if as an identity if
identity is how you've identified
yourself
and you see yourself as a procrastinator
why because you procrastinated so many
points and disappointed you don't want
to be disappointed so now you're a
procrastinator you're no longer
disappointed you feel certain you'll
never have your goals but you feel
certain that's what most people do in
their life but if you set let's say a
thermostat in this room at 78 degrees
and the temperature drops far enough
something's going to happen because the
computer's gonna go hey hey you're a 78
degree or what are you doing here at 68
and the heaters kick on and suddenly you
get this drive I'm sure your listeners
or viewers have had this experience many
times your life where Finance not
another day now I'm changing this
relationship I'm losing this waiter I'm
going to finally do something and then
you push push push now some people push
push push and they go beyond their
comfort zone beyond what they expect not
their goals
it's what they're used to it's their
comfort zone and let's say that's 68
degrees is where they're used to
financially it's not what they want or
their relationship or spiritually or
physically and they grow to 88 98 99
degrees suddenly the brain goes hey
what are you doing here
you're you know you're you're not a 99
degree or
and then all of a sudden the heater stop
and you lose your drive and if that's
not about the air conditioners kick on
you start to sabotage and you go what
happened in my life so identity is the
number one thing I work to change with
people to expand it not to get rid of it
but expand your own sense of who you
really are and what you're capable of
and people think they're going to get
identity by people say to me I have no
self-esteem I hate that word
so overused and abused I normally
self-esteem because when I was growing
up my parents said these terrible things
and those terrible things and I said
isn't it convenient you only remember
those things
you know they said a million things but
suddenly he was honing on those but
let's get real
someone can tell you your whole life
you're a piece of crap but you can say
screw you read between the lines and
make your life work
someone tell your whole life you're
beautiful you're intelligent you're the
smartest person in the world and you
don't believe it because self-esteem
doesn't come from what people say about
you self-esteem is earned within you
yourself
it's a steam for yourself which only
comes by doing things that are
incredibly difficult and then your brain
goes this is who I am the reason I've
done firewalks for years I used to do
skydiving but you know it's hard to get
30 000 people in the middle of the Year
above New York in the middle of the
night but the reason I did these
metaphors was because when someone does
something they once thought was
difficult or impossible and you get the
other side of the brain goes if I get
myself to do this what else could I get
myself to do it changes their identity
when your identity expands your whole
world expands due to fire walking at
your event was crazy it was really cool
because I had always said to my wife I
would walk across fire for you and so at
the event at the event it is like you
are trying to [__] with people you're
like you spend hours warning about like
how wrong it could go you'd be so
careful and so I was like okay wait is
he trying to freak me out so this is
like a bigger deal and then as you're
walking up to it you feel the heat and
you're like oh [__] like these are
actually hot and people start peeling
out a line right they just can't bring
themselves to do it and I'm like look I
may end up with charred stumps for feet
but I told my wife I would walk across
fire for her I'm walking across this
[__] fire it was really meaningful
like as one of those things and you know
and I get it and you guys try to make it
as safe as possible
but it really meant something to me to
to say like I told her I would do this
I'm doing this and then you do it it was
dope you know you see people who go
there go I'm not gonna do this no matter
what I'm just coming for the seminar and
other people think I'm gonna do this and
they get out there and freak out like
you said they peel off but you were
there by the end you know about 99 of
people do it we don't force anybody or
push them to do it but you go through so
many changes in here it's like that's
what we need today we need to
re-engineer ourselves if you've ever
seen one of these Baja races you know a
thousand miles in the desert or you know
there's a million different races that
if you took a normal car you'd be out of
it and probably die in the first day or
so but what they've done is
re-engineered the shock absorbers the
tight size of the tires the engine
system and we need to re-engine
ourselves for winter we need to
re-engine ourselves so that we can
Thrive not just survive during this time
and that's what I'm seeing people do in
their life and their businesses I mean
it's it's been really I know it sounds
crazy but it's been one of the more
beautiful times I hate the fear that's
been generated in so many people on
dually I mean the CDC themselves I wrote
this in my book there's a section in my
health book and I quote directly from
the CDC what's the number one risk
factor other than age
eighty percent of people die of covet
79.8 percent are overweight and obese
extremely overweight something you can
easily do something about nobody talks
about and number two is fear because the
anxiety makes people change their breath
they can't fully oxygenate so it's like
there's a lot within our control if we
just wake up but the beautiful part of
Kobe is a lot of people waking up to
what's possible seeing where it is
seeing how they could change their
entire business because when things
happen and they're going to be unjust
things it doesn't matter the color your
skin it doesn't matter your age doesn't
matter what country you're from
Injustice is everywhere it's going to
happen to all of us at various times
right or it may not just being just as
just like wow you got cancer I mean it's
like you know what I do to deserve this
it isn't like that it's not something
you earn by brownie points it's like
okay what am I going to do with what
life has brought me and my greatest
growth that's helped me help so many
other people is because you know someone
tells me I got a tumor in my brain and
I'm gonna die and I'm like I don't
accept that right I got a tongue rotator
cuff and there's you know you're gonna
have to go through six months of rehab
I'm not gonna accept that there's got to
be another way you know and so and the
things you can't control you learn to
learn how to accept and learn from you
know and so I think covert has Opera
offered that opportunity I'm reaching
more people because of it I'm touching
more lives I'm have an impact I you know
my wife and I try to have a child for
quite many years I have five grandkids
and I have uh four kids and now five but
I have a nine month old now I have a 48
year old daughter and a nine month old
daughter
that's incredible man that's the gift of
Kobe because I was home and we could say
let's give it another shot there you go
uh I want to hit you with another Tony
Robbins quote and
um this one I think sums up what you're
saying here uh you cannot fear change
and do everything the way it's always
been done
and so fear you talk a lot about but man
I have people in my life that are older
than me and many of them they are
calcifying as they get older and I watch
what really served them well in their
20s and 30s and I may have um discussed
this with you before but I'm haunted by
a quote that genius is a young man's
game and as a late bloomer that never
sat well with me but when you look at
people that win Nobel prizes it's almost
always for work that they do in their
early 30s they get awarded in their 60s
but they did the work in their 30s and
seeing how you're going after like
Cutting Edge stuff I know one of the
companies I think you sold it to Apple
uh in the AR VR space if I remember
correctly I've heard you talking about
Bitcoin for years now I know you know
about nfts like it's
how are you so able to embrace change
and how the hell do you stay this
enthusiastic in a world that changes
this fast as you get older why are you
not like so many people are crippled by
that they just want things to stay the
same
I think as early on I realized you know
one of the things you have to understand
about life is
everything changes and everything ends
and that kind of sounds heavy on the
front end but it's a truth if everything
changes and everything ends number one
it should make you appreciate what you
have right now
and then my view is what's next is
always better if I make it so it's my
job to make it so and so I think you
know for me I look at it and say you
know when you said uh genius is a young
man's game I think it's total [__]
um I think
passion is the Genesis of Genius if
you've got enough passion you're going
to find answers nobody else does but
most people run out of fuel meaning they
get tired they get exhausted they get
burnt out they get uh you know the law
familiarity they're around something so
much they take it a little bit for
granted and I've managed to see
something in myself that I found in
every great leader that I've ever
respected and that is I I value
intelligence immensely but I know really
smart people can't fight their way out
of a paper bag pragmatically right I'm
sure you do too what I see is the one
common denominator people that are
successful over a lifetime is the
sustained hunger Hunger is the number
one factor when I see somebody I don't
give up age they I don't care what their
background is if they're hungry to
improve to change to make something
happen I mean if you look at Richard
Branson he's as hungry today in his late
60s as he was at 16 years old and that
[__] starting version your mission is
achieving Excellence you must support
your body
introducing ag-1 this Powerhouse blend
is packed with 75 premium vitamins
minerals and Whole Food sourced
ingredients that elevate your immune
system uplift your mood and promote
restful sleep and athletic greens is
offering our listeners a free one-year
supply of vitamin D and five free travel
packs with your first purchase don't
miss this opportunity to optimize your
health and truly be legendary
you know like my buddy Mark benioff you
know he's like he's I think in his early
50s right now Mark is more hungry today
than when I knew him 12 14 15 years ago
when he was first coming up with ideas
I'm gonna they went to one of my
seminars over and over again the upw you
know which one he went there like four
or five times and he was sitting in the
front row he's a tall guy he introduced
himself and said you've convinced me I'm
Gonna Leave This company I work for as
an employee here and I'm gonna go start
this new company called salesforce.com
wow and he says Tony we're gonna do a
hundred million dollars in business
we're gonna change business now he's
doing whatever 30 billion right now but
it's because he hasn't lost the hunger
and I think the law familiarity is what
destroys a relationship
you get around somebody enough you love
them but you don't have the same passion
same aliveness and I'm just not willing
to settle for a life without passion and
aliveness that's just like there's so
much to learn there's so much to grow
there's so much to give and I'm I'm
wired to grow and give and I I think
anybody gets wired to grow and give it's
going to have a really fulfilling life
it doesn't matter what you choose to do
you're going to be alive because you're
going to make progress and because you
made progress you have something to give
and we all like some people think they
just want to get
but you get get get and it's pretty damn
boring and it doesn't really expand your
sense of identity of who you are but if
you're constantly growing and then
taking what you learn you're so excited
about it you share with other people and
their life gets better whether that be
software you make or dresses you design
or you know something you do in the
health space that really gets people to
enjoy their food while they're eating
well if you have those passions and you
keep growing there's no limit it doesn't
matter what happens in the short term
with a pandemic or with a drop in the
economy or whatever the case may be
these are all temporary when you realize
life has lived in decades not in days
I've seen people in your own seminars
that have been through things that are
so traumatic it's almost hard to believe
that a human can put another human
through something like that but they do
how does somebody like that who is going
to have a very hardwired sense of their
own identity of that they're broken in
some fundamental way that there's no way
beyond that identity and that's creating
what I call a frame of reference so it's
the Distortion you were talking earlier
about we distort things it's creating
that distorted fun house mirror that
they're viewing their world through
how do you because I know somebody uh
that's been through something like that
when they hear all this it just sounds
too facile it's too easy you're just
making it sound so simple yeah what's
the process for overcoming that trauma
well first people get vested in their
trauma people get vested in their pain
if you want to know the largest drug on
the planet it's not cocaine it's not
heroin uh it's not pot it's not you know
some prescription drug the biggest you
know drug on the planet is problems
because everyone has a deep fear
everyone and the deepest fears we have
are too one is that we're not enough
we're not smart enough young enough Rich
enough pretty enough funny enough
something enough
and if we're not enough it digs the
deepest fear we have which is we won't
be loved and love is the oxygen the soul
so you know a baby is they're not
physically kinesthetically loved they
develop what's called failure to thrive
syndrome that's how desperate our
nervous system is for love so human
beings when they think oh my God if I
fail at this it'll look like I'm not
enough and I won't be worthy of Love
they tend to come up with a reason why
that's either not their fault it's
something that was done to me I've got
ADHD I was born with it I was raped I
was whatever and they might even tell
the truth someone may have really raped
it's a horrible situation but other
people raped and they've gotten through
it and they're on the other side of it
this person hasn't because it becomes
their reason for not being where they
want to be in their life and so the
bottom line is a mother can lose her
daughter or son through a drunk driver
and spend the rest of their life in pain
and another one creates mad Mothers
Against Drunk drivers and does something
about it and feels a sense of freedom
and a sense of serving that child in a
sense of higher purpose and what the are
doing so it's not the problem it's not
the trauma it's finding what they value
more than their problem I mean and
everyone has a place where there's
something that value more than the
trauma some people gather trauma because
they realize I've been so traumatized
loss of this child that my other child
feels completely unloved and they they
realize I'm losing that love I'm losing
that child if I don't get my [__]
together right they need a higher level
of what's called Leverage Leverage is
what makes change a must not a should as
long as it's a should you'll have your
story and your story could be a true
story and you'll tell your story and
share your story with yourself or other
people or both and you stay stuck the
trauma is you know it is not it's a
bruise it's not a tattoo right and
Hebrews can be healed but not unless
you're vested in healing it and what a
lot of people do I remember when I was
diagnosed with a tumor in my brain
I've seen this happen so much that I
didn't tell anyone I didn't tell my
spouse at the time the first day I was
trying to process it because I didn't
want people to start treating me
differently and so the only person who
knew for the first day or two was my
assistant because she had talked to the
doctor so before I'd even be able to
tell my spouse at the time all of a
sudden you know everyone treated me like
I was indestructible I taught people to
do that it's like because I want to help
everybody so there was no no it's like
I'll do whatever it takes right so it
was it was inhumid at the time and
suddenly my assistant started saying you
know we shouldn't book that right now
and we shouldn't do this right now and I
started getting love and attention and
connection for having this problem I was
like whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa I'm not
I'm not gonna go down that slippery
slope but that takes a really conscious
mind to do it and and lucky for me I've
had a chance to deal with millions of
people so I see these patterns all the
time but most people their problem is
their drug it's the drug against the
fear that I'm not enough and I won't be
loved even if they go no it's me I'm so
messed up what you're really saying is
reassure me love me they're wanting that
connection through their problem so you
got to decide there's something you
value more than your problem when you
decide that you can make it happen but
most people aren't going to do that
unless they get an environment where
they see that happening what are you
looking for like do you have to first
understand the story that they're
telling themselves to help them unwind
that like when when you're trying to dig
into that what are you looking for to
leverage to narrow the walls to get them
moving in a Direction
I'm listening for something that they
value more than they're paying and or
I'm trying to dig to find where that is
but I first try to figure out like if
you think we all have a life story right
some people's life is a warning some
people's life is an example if your
Life's a warning it still can become an
example if you're alive right you have
that choice that's the greatest story of
all time the comeback story right so
what I'm looking for is what's their
story and the story is driven by number
one what's their desire if you go to a
movie read a book in the first few
minutes the main character you'll
discover what their desire is it to
merge with God is it to find a great
relationship and have children is it to
free themselves from being enslaved or
whatever it is there's a driving desire
and then there's always as soon as you
have a desire there's a problem because
otherwise you'd have your desire and the
problem usually is character piece is
missing within yourself you're being
selfish you're not giving enough you're
not creative enough you're not trusting
enough something enough and then as you
go through the story of a person's life
what happens is they come up with a plan
and there's always you know the phrase
you know if you want to make God laugh
tell her your plans right you know so
it's like the plan doesn't work you end
up having battles and the battles
invariably are with external enemies
with intimate enemies like who can hurt
you more the person you don't know or
the person you love who seems to
betrayed you and then there's the
internal enemy the conflicts within
yourself and as you fight through those
battles if you continue to grow you come
to a point where you have insights you
see what the real truth is it isn't
somebody else it's me this is what needs
to shift and if you see that and act on
it kind of jump through the opening so
to speak then life's never the same
again or life is happily ever after as
it says in every story right because
you've made a shift in the core values
and beliefs and emotions that are
driving your life so I look at it that
way I'm looking to see what's their
story and you want to change your life
change your story are they playing the
position of the the pawn are they the
position of the king are they Court
gesture right are they the Martyr you
know what what is the role they're
playing what's the story they're telling
themselves and then I dig for something
they value more so for example the woman
that uh was going to take her life and
already given up all her stuff
um in a few seconds of talking with her
she mentioned something about her father
who just died and so I asked her a
little bit about her father both her
father and mother had just died she'd
gone through sexual abuse and her
brothers and sisters didn't want to talk
about it and as a result they were
estranged from her and so she felt she
had no friends no anything suffering
financially and in a lot of physical
pain so all these things happening once
people say guess what dying would be
easier than living which is not true but
if you believe it you try to take your
life so as I dug in about her father he
grew up in the depression and he was
extraordinary and I could just see the
respect and love for her father so as I
had her tell me stories and I said well
how did he do that during that time when
he had no money and people were jumping
out of buildings and and I and I go
deeper and deeper and it's like well he
just valued this and he was he learned
from his father and you know he he never
forgot these certain core lessons and I
said oh I said that's interesting and I
said so and what core lessons did you
get from your father and gradually I
started finding where the resources were
why is she not going to kill her herself
why what's the leverage that I can use
to get her to shift and then you can
watch this emotional transformation
happen over about 45 minutes until it
was so unbelievably emotional and
complete at the end like no I'm never
going to take my life I can't take my
life I'm not taking my life and she
starts to rebuild things so really fast
I want to I want to push him on that so
was it that what you were uncovering is
that through her dad she could see
meaningful values that she already
resonated with and then it was about
getting her to transpose those values
from your your putting them on your dad
but you can value those same things in
yourself now you have a chance to live
up to those values which will help you
change your story and your sense of
identity and that's going to give you
the meaning and purpose to pull out
that's the intellectual description of
it the emotional description
yeah and which would not have moved her
though that's the mechanics what moves
her is I can't let my father down
I'm the worst time I can't let my father
down that's what I took her to right and
then building a compelling future what
she can build what she can do what she
does have the ability to make happen
what she has broken through like tapping
into the resources she deleted inside of
herself and reactivating them so she
feels alive again inside herself
although all the other things you
described are the structural
intellectual impact of what actually
happens but that's not what changes
somebody it all comes from emotion we
are emotional creatures we all study
like you're talking about it using your
brain you're such a smart person I love
you dearly and you analyze it all but
your effing brain isn't going to do [__]
what's going to do it is enough emotion
what motion is the power emotion is what
starts Wars It's what ends Wars emotions
what gets you married emotions is where
kids comes from divorce is where emotion
comes from everything that you can think
of of a major change in humanity from
the most extreme of War to the most
gentle of love all come from human
emotions so it's the mix of emotion it's
like knowing what you want and having
the right fuel to get there and you have
if the fuel has no combustion You're
just bored you're not going anywhere if
the fuel is total trauma and I'm
overwhelmed you just blow up and go
nowhere there's that delicate balance
and I've learned over the years how to
help people find that balance okay this
is really interesting and may you may
have put your finger on the thing that I
struggled with the most the thing I find
compelling is for sure being able to
understand intellectually what's
happening because I've used that to
change my own life that is the thing
that works on me do you at all feel I
would ask you to consider something
please what you just said is absolutely
true I know you really well you know how
much I respect and love you personally
and what you've accomplished in life is
extraordinary what your community
accomplish is extraordinary but there's
an emotional inflection that made you
use those things
in those moments it wasn't just those
understandings if the emotion made you
find the answers brother and then you
have a really smart mind you found the
answers figure how to use it but there
are inflection moments that made you do
it there's a reason why you left your
company after building it to a billion
dollars it wasn't intellectual
it's emotions
so but you have developed your mind so
much it's like your right arm your bicep
is really strong your left one not quite
as much
and I'm inviting you to consider that
your left one is your more powerful one
and you've used it in key moments but it
also it's very protective to use the
mind because we're all afraid to feel a
little too much so the more I can
understand it I put it out here I can
analyze it I don't have to be in it but
the truth is where you're gonna wear
your impact or your real since impact
Theory where the real impact is is when
there's enough emotion that gets you to
apply the things that you understand
intellectually right or find the answer
you you didn't even have the answers you
found the answers intellectually because
the emotion drove you so it's really
studying what creates that emotion that
makes the difference in anybody's life
that's where everything begins and ends
is with emotion and yet our society is
all about up here you know Chinese
medicine it's all about the heart right
that's considered the center right in
America we think it's the brain yeah you
know when you first are born you know
your heart starts beating that's how we
know you're live and there is no brain
yet and this literally is the social
sense of intelligence that's why you
know for thousands of years even poets
have talked about the power of the heart
well the heart has tremendous power and
there's a biochemical connection between
the brain and the heart that I know you
know about and learning how to use that
is where you create more lasting change
when I was understanding it all I was
good when I learned how to move people I
got great at what I was doing
um
yeah that that feels like a really
important statement and now I'll give
you a little more insight into part of
what Riles me up
the reason that people in self-help fall
into snake oil salesman territory is
some people are very good at
orchestrating emotion but they don't
actually know how to create lasting
change in people and so it's [__]
and so many people get caught up in that
part well that's just watch that's like
the pump up right they're pumped up and
then it drops right it's gone right yeah
so that that's my big fear not
necessarily with myself I'm pretty good
at getting myself to do what is useful
to me in terms of moving me towards
fulfillment just to put a really brief
cap on it yeah but I what do you think
about in fact I'll ask it another way
how have you avoided
falling into the realm of [__]
because so many people that mimic you
they only exist in the realm of getting
people to feel something emotional but
you don't so you uncover this okay I'm
gonna make this about not letting your
dad down
But the A year later and I'm just going
back to the study now a year later
people still have this lasting impact so
how and where are you translating it
from the all right we're not going to
let your dad down and this is how we're
going to do it because it's not enough
that's what that provides the leverage
right now we've got to condition your
nervous system to feel a different way
in these contexts right now where you
feel overwhelmed and so I use emotion
with Precision it's more like a laser
it's not a pump up uh you know people
see a seminar with me and they see 10
000 people or 20 000 people in the
stadium jumping it's you all know it's
not about jumping it's using this
scientifically to shift the biochemistry
in that room you know the the study they
did at Stanford they did they followed
me for three years and they put this 85
000 Vice on me that measures everything
a heart rate variability everything you
imagine and then every hour they came it
took my saliva and some blood to see how
my biochemistry was changing it was so
radical because they found out I jump a
thousand times on an average day on
stage a thousand times and I weighed 200
185 pounds so every time you come down
it's four times the body weight when you
hit so imagine a million pounds times a
thousand jumps you know a million pounds
of pressure basically going to my body
in just one day
um my lactic acid if you're speaking
with somebody and you're running and
there's a point you can't talk anymore
because your lactic acid had four well
I'm at 18 I'm still speaking but the
most crazy thing that they discovered
was that they started measuring my
audience as well and it's wild it looks
I know you know about mirror neurons
right you can watch somebody and then
you start to experience in your body
what they're doing well I take an
audience all over the world including
people in their home in their houses
right now that we do these things
digitally we'll have 25 000 people in
event we might have ten thousand people
in front of me another you know fifteen
thousand at home in 100 countries and
they went out and they did the same
tests on them and they literally mirror
my biochemistry and there's something
that they found in studying guys like
Tom Brady and they they studied the um
the Stanley Cup champions of Tampa Bay a
lightning and so forth is when they get
to a stressful point they call it the
championship biochemistry there's a
place where your testosterone surges so
you have this incredible drive right it
also makes you retain whatever you're
thinking about because with a
testosterone you remember it right
because it creates a biochemical shift
but also cortisol which is the stress
hormone drops through the floor that's
why Tom Brady can have a minute left and
do these unbelievable type comebacks he
is in this Zone well that's where I am
and I take people biochemically into the
zone and then I take them out
deliberately to produce a little more
fear break it out you know I'm building
muscles with them and you literally see
it looks like music to what's going on
there and then every single person that
they test it goes to this biochemical
change so a year later they didn't just
have the leverage oh I'm doing this for
my mom or new values or new beliefs they
had the biochemistry that's wired into
them that gives them strength under
stress and that's why they're doing well
a year later once for follow up
everybody couldn't believe it how could
11 months later have this continued to
improve well with new beliefs and new
values you're improving your life but
also because it was wired with so much
emotion you've had a biochemical shift
as well and so the combination is
answers your original questions I said
you can't separate the mind the body I
do both when somebody just pumps people
up you know copies what I do in terms of
the surface they don't know what they're
doing on the Deep part and some people
do the Deep part but they don't quite
frankly get everybody because they don't
produce the emotional change so people
leave intellectually understanding why
they're messed up and they can explain
it to you but nothing changes it's the
combination of those that produces real
lasting transformation
all right talk to me about values
concretely is there a generic set of
values that everyone should be living
their life against is it all super
unique to the individual and how do we
go about creating and making those
values stick
great question when I was like 35 years
old I for about a year I asked everybody
anywhere I went Taxi Driver what's most
important to you in life what else is
most important which that's how you find
out what people value most right and I
was looking for that ideal set of values
that if we could all do that it just
shows you know my level of development
at 35 right thinking we all have one set
of values at different stages of life we
need to Value different things there are
different lessons there are predictable
things that happen from 0 to 21 not
identical for everyone but there's
certain things you're accumulating
knowledge and skill you're you know if
you're lucky if someone's looking out
for you most people have someone looking
out for at least for a period of that
time you go to 22 to 42. now you're
testing what you were taught all the
things you were taught to believe and
then you find out [__] relationships are
a little more complex than I thought
when you get into a deep intimate one
right and then you discover well [__]
I'm not invincible and so 22 to 42 if
you work at it you're the soldier of
society and you're learning and you're
growing and you're testing and now
you're developing Who You Are 43 to 63
roughly you know 20-year segments some
people you know I went to work when I
was 11 years old right so I didn't start
at 21 but you get the idea the overall
phases of life but 43 63 that's your
power period if you worked hard in the
first two seasons if you planted in the
spring and you took care of things
during the summer and kept growing then
it's fall for you that's the timing of
the greatest reaping in terms of
business success in terms of life in
terms of wisdom in terms of
understanding and you get better in your
relationships and you stop judging
yourself so insanely hopefully and then
from 64 to 84 to 104 to the oldest
living humans you know 120 that's a
different period That's a period in
which if you've done well in the
beginning you get to be the Elder of the
tribe and you get to be in a place where
you get to Mentor people and you want to
and it's not about you anymore because
you live enough life to know that that's
an empty promise you know there's only
so much feelings you can have for
yourself you know you know buying things
or music or drugs or sex or whatever
there's these start to realize life has
a higher and deeper purpose and it's
about something more than me life's not
about me it's about we and when that
starts to happen to people if they're
healthy if they took care of themselves
in those first three stages it's the
most fulfilling time of Life all the
research shows most fulfilling if you're
healthy so it's that's kind of the race
track of life and in Gross sense of
things and then there's every one of us
goes to those stages and we have
different life experiences but we also
are placed in a different place in
history
so right now we're in winter it's not
hard to figure this out if I asked you
you know if you were born in 1910 and
you know what what what's life like is
your coming of age at 21 well that's
when you know 1929s when the stock
market crashed and people jumping out of
buildings so these people that saw World
War one end as children and we are the
heroes and they saw all this new
technology radio and TVs and cars
thought they're gonna party and right
when they came of age all hell broke
loose from that 21 to 42 because once
the Depression was done then we went
into World War II
but that that particular generational
location duplicates every 80 years
that's where Millennials are right now
on some Z generation that Generation by
the way was not respected they were
called Flappers they were irresponsible
but when the environment changed they
grew and it became known as the greatest
Generation but think about they came
home and had this time of prosperity of
Peace the late 40s 50s until Kennedy was
shot in 63 those are unique times that's
kind of Springtime it's easy to grow
then there's the hot summer where
there's fights within generations and
values within the country and that's
thinking about the 60s and 70s and then
the 80s 90s 2000s very different than
the 60s and 70s so we're now in winter
winter just means it doesn't mean every
day is a bad day it just means the
overall theme is fear the overall theme
is limitation and people will get
exhausted of it just like they got
exhausted of the 80s and the 90s of go
go go and it's all going to be me get
rich and it's all about me me
now those times are over that gets
exhausted winter we're about halfway
through it if you study history
no one knows exactly what it is the
20-year segments I'm giving you are
generalizations but we still got
probably some War to deal with that's
usually what happens there's economic
war and then there's war that's seen on
on a world stage and so we see what's
happening now in Russia what's happening
in China it might be a different kind of
War it might be a war that's you know
turning off your electricity it might be
a cyber War but we're going to go
through some difficult times but on the
other side of it is spring so the beauty
is
you know some Winters are long some are
short some are hard some are easy but
you never skip winter you don't go from
fall and reaping straight to Spring but
when you go through winter and get
strong Now new Springtime happens if you
do well in Winter if you take care of
yourself and get strong that's my goal
to help people with right now my goal is
like how do you help people right now
that's why by the way I'm doing the
challenges that I'm doing now because
since covet happened people are stuck at
home I was like how can I help a mass
number of people and I don't want money
to be in the way I don't want anything
to be in the way so I do a five day
challenge about two usually sometimes
three hours a day I tell them one and a
half two hours but I want to give more I
charge nothing for it and we have in the
last three years a million people
participate in each one of these things
and it's free I'm just showing people
what to do with their body what to do
with their mind what do with their
emotion what do with their relationship
what they do with their business because
winter is scary for most people with a
career or business you know you see all
the layoffs happening in the tech
business you see the challenges we've
all gone through from covet and now new
challenges with inflation all this is
coming so what are you going to do give
up well some people are going to hope
that's no strategy some are going to
give up other people are going to retool
themselves and so that's my skill set
I'm made for winter so that you become
more unshakable what I mean by
unshakeable is it's not that nothing
bothers you it's just that when
everybody else is freaking out you have
perspective you know how to take
advantage of the situation you have a
plan you know what to do because
financially these times are the best
times in the world to make money you
know the Depression more people became
millionaires from the depression anytime
in history you know John F Kennedy's
father Joe Kennedy you know he had three
million dollars in 1929 he had 62
million dollars equivalent of three
billion dollars three years later
because when things are going rough
people give up and freak out and
opportunity shows up for those that keep
their head straight so whether it's your
relationship or whether it's your body
or whether it's your Finance chances I
spent a lifetime collecting the best
strategies and tools obviously
everything you've put out has had a huge
impact on my life I want to go back to
values as it relates to depression and
changing where you're at in your life so
I have a thesis that I think may play
into why you're focused on getting
people to be unshakable what that's all
about my thesis goes like this that
fulfillment is the Ultimate Game of Life
fulfillment has a a recipe and that
recipe is that you need to do really
hard things because Evolution demands it
quite frankly so you have to do really
hard things in order to make progress
which is something I've stolen directly
from you which is progress is a
foundational pillar of human happiness
which I think is so true and so you're
working really hard to gain a set of
skills that is the sense of progress
that allow you to serve not only
yourself but other people and if you do
that then you get in a very virtuous
cycle of gaining Mastery at something so
you're getting better at something
that's allowing you to serve other
people you're getting feedback from them
that whoa you've made my life better
which then makes you want to work harder
gives you meaning and purpose so when I
think about values in that light I think
about things that need to be aligned
with the reality of that formula which I
will say is a a gift or curse depending
on how you look at it of evolution and
it just it is the necessary thing for
you to survive long enough to have kids
that have kids that's the first social
creature anyway
that's the formula and so when I think
about unshakable I think about it in
that light of nature demands that you
work hard at something that you earn it
that it has been difficult that you
persevere and push through it that the
thing you're pushing through and
persevering is meant to allow you to
transform potential into actual usable
skill set that's progress so that you
can serve does that land for you or is
there something that I'm missing no it
absolutely lands the the simple way I
always describe it is there's two skills
you gotta Master to have life on your
terms to have an extraordinary life give
me an extraordinary Life Is Life on your
terms it's not my life it's what is it
for you for some people that's uh you
know a white picket fence and three
children for some people it's building a
big business for some people it's being
an author it's like so many different
things poetry music so everybody's got
to find it is what it is that they
really love but the skills you got to
master and have life on your terms is
one the science of achievement that's
what you're describing how do I take
what I Envision and make it real and
those are strategies and they are proven
strong strategies there are certain
rules of the game if you want to be
healthy and you want a lot of energy
everyone's biochemically slightly
different but there's certain rules if
you violate them you're gonna have low
energy and disease if you align with
them you've got an enormous energy and
strength same thing around Finance
anyone can grow financially but most
people don't learn the basic
fundamentals and so they missing the
strategy so that's strategy driven and I
expand a good portion of my life
teaching people that but then the second
part is what creates lasting fulfillment
and Lasting fulfillment as you said I
always say progress equals happiness if
we're not making progress they're not
happy but it doesn't require progress
every moment and noticing it either
that's another catch-all that's my
lifestyle and your lifestyle right our
lifestyle is the formula that you
described but the really ultimate
formula besides progress is appreciation
because you can make progress and then
I'm always having to make progress each
moment to be happy so we do need to grow
what you said is true fundamentally
everything in the world grows or dies
everything Universe contributes or it's
eventually eliminated uh you know by
Nature so those aren't my laws those are
the laws of nature however happiness
only requires that you are grateful if
you've got a billion dollars and three
beautiful children that love you and a
beautiful husband or wife but doesn't
matter what you have if you're not
grateful if you live in an emotional
home a habitual pace of worry or
frustration your life's called worry and
frustration so it's you can be making
progress and still be worried and
frustrated so it isn't quite just what
you said you have to also develop a new
decision that says I'm going to live a
different life I have a a vision for my
life spiritually and that Vision
spiritually is I'm going to live in a
beautiful state no matter what that
doesn't mean I'm never going to get
upset or frustrated or pissed off it
just means I got a 90-second rule that
I'm going to get out of that as fast as
possible and solve it from a beautiful
place so that I'm adding value to the
people around me and myself so my own
biochemistry gets the benefit of that
and so that doesn't mean that you're
always making progress I love progress I
think progress equals happiness but it
isn't the only secret to that it's
really can you train your brain to
appreciate because in the middle of
whatever you're pissed off about or
frustrated or fearful about or worried
about you're deleting all the things you
could be grateful for you can appreciate
that are absolutely real and that's the
problem with the mind you know I want
your listeners or viewers to really
think about this you do not experience
life
you experience the life you focus on
that's it if you focus on what's wrong
what's wrong is always available so is
what's right
and so our Focus producers our meanings
and emotions which produce the actions
of our life so it really starts with the
patterns of your focus do you tend to
focus on what you have or what's missing
most Achievers that are looking to make
progress I've dealt with millions of
them over the years as you well know I'm
one you're one right most Achievers that
progress thing is really important
they're like oh it's got to have the
next thing and that's really wonderful
but it's only one way of doing things
and so it's like saying to yourself wait
a second I'm gonna regret that with this
progress or not I'm gonna find the good
in this I'm going to find the great in
this and what that does is it produces a
different fuel to live your life from
and from that fuel it's easy to make
progress you know I used to tell myself
I got really pissed off my brain gets
really sharp and fast and figures the
answer is well that's true but when I'm
really in a great state my brain is fast
and quick and I enjoy it and people
around me enjoy it so it's also deciding
how you're going to be not just what
you're going to do and I think the
combination of those is where the
quality of life that people are really
looking for shows up the truth is
hitting your career goals is not easy
you have to be willing to go the extra
mile to stand out and do hard things
better than anybody else but there are
10 steps I want to take you through that
will 100x your efficiency so you can
crush your goals and get back more time
into your day you'll not only get
control of your time you'll learn how to
use that momentum to take on your next
big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode what if people
understand that they live that way for
months year plus whatever something
happens and they slide back I get asked
that a lot I you know I'm sliding back I
get stuck I keep returning here is there
an Insight that they're missing a key
emotion a value what what is it that
they need to address to make sure that
they don't backslide constantly well uh
I'll give you a formula if you want to
know what makes people happy at the most
basic level when your life conditions
match your blueprint when your life
conditions are what you're expecting not
your ultimate dream but when you meet
your basic expectations you're happy
if your life conditions are better than
you expected you're over the moon
if your life conditions don't match your
blueprint your expectations your pain
if your light conditions don't match
your blueprint and you believe I'm
unable to change it it's something wrong
with me or it's a permanent problem or
it's pervasive or it's personal you know
you get into learned helplessness then
you're going to suffer and so nothing is
permanent not even the body is permanent
certainly no problem is permanent your
soul might be the only thing that might
be permanent right so it's really
helping people to understand that when
the life conditions change your
blueprint has to change with it either
like if you're not happy you either have
to change your life or change your
blueprint your expectations usually it
requires a combination of those two so
often what you say people as sliding is
their life conditions changed and then
what they were doing wasn't enough to
make him feel the way he wanted to feel
and so then they adapted to an old style
of coping they went back to smoking or
drinking or eating or yelling at people
or whatever the pattern may be but
that's because they didn't continue to
grow and so that's why it's not a static
thing with me I teach people not just
okay you're going to make these changes
and your values it's like you got to
look at your life conditions change
they're gonna make that happen as you
hit different stages of life you're
gonna have to make those decisions and
people don't everybody wants their life
to be better but no one wants to change
right so we have to keep changing as the
life conditions change we got to update
our blueprint our values our beliefs our
rules about how to play the game and we
have to update our behaviors to adapt to
where the environment is if you don't do
that you're in trouble there are many
people during covet who it was the most
horrific experience there are many
people that learn to use covet not like
covet use them they grew their
businesses they expanded their mind they
shifted their emotions they did things
they never would have done other people
gained 20 pounds right so it's all a
matter of do you adapt to the life
conditions and do you learn how to learn
because this isn't a one-time thing oh I
did this thing I went and worked out for
a weekend now I'm pumped well great how
long is that going to last you're gonna
have to continue to use that and have a
daily practice otherwise you of course
go back and that's the biggest missing
thing I teach people daily practices
that give take what they've learned and
make it ongoing in their life as opposed
to wow I had this great weekend
if you look at a person's life most
people major in minor things Jim around
my teacher used to say that to me all
the time meaning they know about all
kinds of things that don't matter but
there's maybe a half of things that
matter
there's your emotions there's your
relationships there's your finances
there's your career or your sense of
mission or your business and then
there's the spiritual side of life and
so I've always taught on all those areas
but in 2008 when all hell broke loose
the first time
um you know I've worked with Paul Tudor
Jones one of the top 10 financial
traders for now 25 years 26 years and so
I knew a little bit in this area most
people don't know I know the details of
you know a lot man hearing you talk
about Finance you are freakishly
knowledgeable I've seen you on stage
with people that make a living doing it
and not only do you keep up in many ways
I think they're listening to you as
closely as you're listening to them at
this point how do you learn that stuff
that deeply
well you know yeah I go for total
immersions like you if you learn
language a little bit at a time you know
two three years from now you don't speak
the language but if I dumped you into
Rome and said you're not leaving for
eight weeks and there's no teacher
you're going to be speaking Italian
before you leave there so I'm a big
believer in total immersion but I also
believe in modeling the best on Earth so
in money Master the game fortunately I
have access so it's like I'm gonna give
you 50 of the smartest Financial people
on Earth and everybody who's made it
from nothing to multi-billionaire and
they all did it different ways and I'm
good at pattern recognition and I'm
going to pattern utilization in fact I
would say to your audience you know in
2040 which sounds like a long way from
now 18 years ago like that your mind
will be blown half the jobs we have
today according to Oxford and a variety
of other universities are going to be
gone they're replaced by robotics by
algorithms you know the game and so the
bottom line is you need to be good at
pattern recognition and that's what gets
somebody strong at anything I mean you
look at you know why is Amazon doing so
well he rely as one pattern was valued
over anything else convenience right if
you look at Tom Brady friend of mine he
he's got pattern recognition like nobody
else at 43 years old he's able to do
things no one dream could be done he's
got more Super Bowl rings than any team
so I said I want to go to this best
people on Earth and see what do they see
that none of us see what's the pattern
then you gotta learn pattern utilization
it's one thing to see it's nothing to
use it and then if you're good after a
while you get to pattern creation it's
like if you learn to play the piano most
people play other people's music and
there's a point you've learned so much
that you're able to create and I think
those three skills the most important
skills so I look at the areas that
matter most and say who already has that
extraordinary pattern recognition
utilization so if I go to Ray dalio
who's you know return more money to
investors than anyone alive you know
he's going to have a different level of
understanding than the average person
and because I immerse myself so much
most of these interviews are supposed to
be 30 minutes and the average one was
three and a half hours and so but like
Ray Daddy is now dear friend of mine I
can pitch and catch with him because
because I came so over prepared and
because I could again not just catch the
ball he threw but pitch it back and so
to me that's what I did I did for total
immersion it was a three and a half year
project and then expanded I wrote you
know uh unshakable after that because I
saw what was going to happen in the
markets and I wanted people prepared and
that's why I'm doing life force right
now life force was driven
because I've always taught Health
elements you and I both are both kind of
biohackers in our lives I have to be you
know my average seminar is 12 or 13
hours a day I go four days minimum over
the last few years I've had all these
groups that measure Olympic athletes and
professional athletes measure me and to
give you an idea I burn 11 300 calories
in one day on stage no I believe I
didn't believe it either but I do I
bring 4 000 before I get on stage Chess
Masters burn 4 000 without moving so
that's basically what happens but I also
to give you an idea I push my body you
know lactic acid if you're running with
a friend and you get where you can't
speak anymore you're at a four of
lactate I'm in an 18 of lactate and
still speaking they just couldn't
believe it I have 15 pounds more of lean
body mass than the average lineman does
in the NFL
demands I jumped a thousand times in a
day on average is what they measured I
weigh 282 pounds so they're explaining
to me every time I come down it's four
times your body weight so a thousand
times a thousand is a million pounds of
pressure per day and I've been doing
that for 45 years so if you saw my bone
density they showed a graph and they go
these are humans these are the greatest
Olympic athletes this is something we
never measured before it's 99.99
stronger than anything they've measured
of any human so those demands are huge
but
but still not in fact
and I'm chasing a 22 year old which the
age is as much as the skill a lot more
skill than I had and oh my God I had an
accident I tore my rotator cuff so bad
nine nine pain wouldn't go away went to
all the doctors he needs surgery what's
the recovery time four to you know four
months to six months I'm like I have
friends who still can't bring their
shoulder down and I've had a lunge
re-injure it and so I went looked around
and it's what started me really on this
is I said okay what are my other options
what about stem cells I met Dr Bob
Harare he's kind of like the one of the
founders of stem I know him well how did
those oh you know Bob he did those
original studies that they took old rats
and gave them young rat's blood we've
all heard about it now and vice versa
and the old rats got young and young
rats got old kind of vampire stuff but
as a result they discovered stem cells
and what they could do and Bob said Tony
you won't get them here go to this place
in Panama you'll get four day old stem
cells that are from the core they're not
obviously fetal cells in any way I
wouldn't do that and I went down the
first day I felt okay the second day I
felt really tired the third day I woke
up Not only was my shoulder perfect and
I mean perfect in three days I could do
anything with it I've never having I've
had the MRI but I had had spinal
stenosis for about 14 years and I woke
up for the first time in my life without
back pain I want to know everything
about breakthroughs in medicine I want
to know Precision medicine I want to
know regenerative medicine and then I
was invited by the pope to come speak
believe it or not the pope has the
biggest stem cell conference in the
world he does it every two years and I
got invited to be the cleanup speaker in
a four-day program and I was like I'm
not just going to do cleanup speaker I'm
going to go attend the whole thing and I
met docs doing things that you would
think are going to happen 20 or 30 years
in the future sounds like total future
stuff that's happening either right now
or in the next 24 to 36 months so I've
spent the last three years anything 165
different doctors Bob and Nobel Prize
winners Bob Ferrari co-wrote the book
with me along with Peter D Mendes both
her MDS Peter's a rocket scientist as
well and so together we put this book
together so that I could do the same
thing bring people the very best of what
to do now what are your Alternatives
what are your choices what's proven
what's not yet but what's coming and I'm
real excited about it's a book I really
wrote it not only for the person who's
reading it but I don't know about you
every day of my life at this stage in my
life I have a lot of friends and a lot
of people I know I get a call from
somebody who's got you know they've had
a stroke or somebody's got cancer and
it's terminal supposedly and you know
I've seen him turn around again and
again or somebody's in a position where
you know they've got a parent who's got
Alzheimer's they don't know what to do
and so I put in one book The Greatest
answers from the greatest scientists on
Earth of what's available right now as
well as what's coming in the short term
not the long term who knows the long
term long term of all kinds of pieces
but I'm excited to bring it to people it
comes out on February 8th people can
pre-order it it's called it's called
life force this is it right here it is
baby yeah please that'd be amazing I am
uh Beyond fascinated by The Cutting Edge
of Medical Science and so I'm so I know
uh both Bob and Peter diamandis uh and
have had some of the talks around stem
cells but I'm really curious as you've
gone you know well beyond just those
guys what what is the most exciting
thing coming at The Cutting Edge of
medicine is it stem cells is it
something else no it's it's
understanding that the aging process is
the breakdown of communication between
the cells Dr David Sinclair from Harvard
is probably the number one expert in the
world there's something called yamanaka
factors which is a way of turning on the
body's original systems you know we all
know that we have as time goes by you
know you have most people are familiar
with their DNA but of course DNA or your
genome that is not your destiny what
matters is the system that runs that and
so if you're the epigenome is what's
that called if people aren't familiar
with it and the epigenome gets messed
stop meaning as time radiation bad food
bad lifestyle it irritates and all of a
sudden the communication is not so clear
but there are ways of restoring it so
they restored three out of four of these
yamanaka factors just recently at
Harvard University and they took mice
that are blind now they had glaucoma so
the nerves are gone and they reverse the
aging and they can see again it's the
first time in history the nerves it's
actually regrew regroup Gene there's
Gene therapies right now the people that
are being able to see again for the very
first time I mean there's there's
something called the wind pathway you
may have heard of wnt pathway I heard
about this for the first time three and
a half years ago when I was at the
Vatican this man walks out and you know
I'm sitting beside Sanjay Gupta it was a
you know pretty informed guy really
great guy and Dr Oz are both good
friends of mine and he's research and
he's really quiet there's no hype and
then he starts to describe how they you
know figured out the code of the wind
pathway and the wind pathway after
you're born
and the first seven to ten days if you
cut off a child's finger and you don't
sew it back up it'll regrow just like a
salamander's tail but then after that
time we don't have fetal tissue anymore
everything else you call you is coming
from this wind signaling pathway it
tells the stem cells make this many
brain stem cells heart stem cells Etc
and for 30 years pharmaceutical
companies been trying to figure out the
Breakthrough this particular company has
figured out breakthroughs now they're in
faith I'm sure you know phase one is
safety at the FDA phase two is efficacy
and phase three is efficacy at scale and
then you get approved so they're they're
at the end of phase two about to begin
phase three they think they hope by the
end of this year they'll be done but in
the preliminary information here's one
of their treatments one injection single
injection and if you have osteoarthritis
over the next 10 to 12 months you regrow
all your tendons brand new from stem
cells and it's from a new epigenome you
know like when they made Dolly you know
the the when they duplicated you know uh
way back right
well how did this old sheep create a
brand new sheep without all those
problems because the epigenome gets
reset
so they figured out how to make that
happen through your wind pathway and it
has all kinds of impact there's eight
different cancers that they're working
on treatments for there are things
that'll just blow your mind so I
couldn't give you one thing there's
spray on stem cells like you know most
people don't know it but if a fireman or
policeman or someone falls into a fire
and you burn your face off we've all
seen people who are scarred for life the
standard treatment is to put cadaver
skin on there for you to try to keep you
alive and make things go they now have
in seven hospitals in the United States
where they can take your stem cells and
spray them on your face and I have them
in the book the pictures will blow your
mind from a grotesque to you could
barely tell anything happened in a
period of three weeks I mean it is
mind-boggling so there are things that
can increase your energy right now there
is a study being done uh you probably
are familiar with the faculty start to
say that your breakdown happens in the
epigenome but also the energy centers of
your body start to get weaker over time
and there are now new discoveries of how
to stimulate the body so that that
epigenome cleans itself off like gets
rid of the static makes it clean again
in other words does repair while
simultaneously firing off the furnaces
of energy in your body and one of the
studies there's been a lot of animal
studies obviously and they don't always
Translate
so you have to be careful about animal
States they're intriguing but we don't
know for sure to do with humans and in
the animal studies you're in an old rat
which forget how many months it is but
let's call it a 60 year old rat would be
the equivalent for a human it can run
like a quarter of a kilometer on one of
those tracks a young rat can run a full
kilometer the ones that they test here
that are older can run three to four
kilometers once they've had this for
literally 20 days but what's really cool
is it wasn't supposed to be released but
but it's in the book there's a group of
from the special forces that was done in
Boston they just finished the first
study year long and they're seeing
similar results with human beings so
we'll know more but they're not going
for this as a nutraceutical this is
going for actually a drug it should be
easier as an intraceutical but most of
those intraceuticals don't last they're
not they don't hold up this one they
believe will so for energy for Vitality
for your mind I mean there are it's more
than you can it's 700 pages that give
you an idea like you said I write told
yeah these are getting longer and longer
here Tony uh which is Amazing by the way
and the way that you're approaching it
going after the experts and also that
this is stuff that you're already
immersed in you know the fact that
you're taking your own injury and
turning that into something and a few
years ago and maybe I was worrying for
nothing but I
um I was worried about your voice and it
seems like you've made progress there
um are what are you doing yourself with
all of this stuff is are you doing
regular stem cell treatment are they
general or do you get like injections
specifically into the shoulder into the
vocal cords like how does this work no
my my shoulder is perfect I don't have
to do anything new as far as that's
concerned but I do stem cell treatments
that I I'm you know I'm testing things
out all the time there's a new form of
them called V cells and it's very small
embryonic like stem cells or a discovery
that only came out about 13 years ago is
this an IV drip like how are we getting
them in the system yes this would be an
IV drip in this case they can also do
injections along the edge of your spine
or something of that nature but what I'm
interested in this one is you probably
know some of the tests now like true age
that can say Okay chronologically I'm 61
years old but biologically I'm only 51
right uh and Dr Sinclair's example he's
fifth uh he's 53 but his biology is 33.
yeah he looks young as hell it's crazy
he really does and his dad was in his
80s who was falling you know falling
apart now goes jogging and running and
everything else so it gives it to his
dog so I'm pretty I'm tired of the hip
just like did on the financial side to
these guys I learned from so that I'm on
a Cutting Edge and I'm utilizing those
tools wherever I can but you know I have
to keep this body in unbelievable shape
because of the demands that I make and
when you know when we went through the
covet thing where all of a sudden
overnight imagine when what you do for a
living is 15 to 30 000 people in a
stadium and suddenly everywhere on Earth
they go you can have 10 people or five
or none I mean literally overnight be
canceled everything and so it's like
people need me how am I going to help
them and I want to watch somebody do a
little webinar with like 252-inch
screens I was like I'll kill myself
first I mean you've been in my adventure
it's got to be an experience it's got to
take you it's got to have the rock and
roll emotion and feeling and so I sat
down with my buddies and and my team and
I put out tape recorder I said here's
what I'm going to do but first I said
we're going to Vegas they'll never shut
down Vegas yes of course they did then I
went okay you know I'll do this in 1500
movie theaters with 10 people each
around the country by satellite and I
shut down the movie theaters so I find
it was like okay I got to reach people
in their homes but make it as dynamic as
if they were there in person so I was
like okay we're gonna build I'm gonna
find a building with 40 foot high
ceilings I'm going to do 20 foot high
LED screens 0.67 highest resolution in
the world 50 feet wide 180 degrees
around me I'm gonna call Eric Dion at
zoom and say I need to upgrade what
you're doing with zoom so I can interact
with people on a larger scale not just
you know a thousand or five thousand but
a hundred thousand I want to build a
software so that people can shake it and
it sends a signal so the clapping's
authentic it gets louder as people do
whatever the case maybe and did the
whole thing brought seven companies
together one said we got to build this
and they said this is a big project
maybe in nine months I said no you got
nine weeks went through got rid of a lot
of the people and we pulled it off and
so I've seen more people this year and
last year
in these events because I have people
from 195 countries every country in the
world participating in every time zone
too if you can imagine I'm starting at
10 A.M in Florida and it's midnight in
Australia right and these people are
going from midnight till one of the
afternoon the next day four or five days
in a row and staying completely engaged
and saying they have the time of their
life so we kind of cracked the code now
I do both I did a hybrid event the other
day date with Destiny I lifted the front
wall that's why I picked a building with
40 foot high ceilings I could see people
in 97 countries and right in front of me
I had another thousand people so we're
we're in Reinventing what does it take
so we can help people where they live
yeah I want to zoom in on the moment
where they say maybe in nine months but
even that is probably going to be tough
and you're like no no we have to go to
nine weeks that that is the thing that
uh is the difference
between people that struggle in life and
people that can do extraordinary things
so one there's two parts this I really
want to get both one where do you get
the hutzpah to believe that you can pull
that off and then two from an execution
standpoint how do you actually pull it
off because it you hinted at the people
that don't believe have to go and so
walk me through that on on both of those
points if you don't mind well I'm happy
to but you're an example this yourself
and I'm not blowing smoke that's how you
built the billion dollar company you and
I are philosophically aligned obviously
known each other for years and where did
I get the hutzpah from it's not my
hutzpah it's it needs to be done it's
like I'm Mission driven if you're if
you're just doing something for yourself
I don't I don't need to work another day
of my life you know I mean it's like
okay I can sit home and have a good time
but you know I got a mission so it's
like people need us right now they don't
need us nine months from now and then
it's a matter of finding like you said
other people that are super skilled and
are mission driven also that bought into
the mission of how helping people not
just we're going to build a studio that
we're gonna we're gonna create an
environment where people all over the
Earth can become together as friends and
family we're going to see them in their
homes there's going to be advantages
that we don't have in a live event I can
see their children I can see their
husband or wife I can see how they live
and where they are and so you know I
would say out of all the companies we
started with we ended up with probably
half of them still working on the
project we brought in new people and
it's your willingness also to call it
straight like when somebody doesn't own
it you got to call it tight and you got
to move on otherwise you're going to
have a few weak people or weak
organizations or weak structures that'll
destroy the rest of your mission and so
you're so loving you're willing to do
that yeah how do you specifically Tony
Robbins who loves people is very kind
you obviously are also good at no
[__] but in that moment
are you just like look you you don't
make the cut you gotta go or do you have
like a specific speech I've seen you do
really hard things in your Live Events
but like what what are you thinking in
that moment because it'll it'll be hard
on their business and it's going to be
emotionally difficult for them how do
you navigate those moments I don't take
somebody out who still has enough drive
and desire and hunger
um then it's just a matter of coaching
them on skills or finding a solution
together but when I find somebody who no
longer believes or is no longer certain
if you're on a team with me and we're
you know we're the Golden State Warriors
or let's say the old days you know with
Michael Jordan you know the weakest link
is going to keep us from the mission so
I have to Value the mission more than
this individual they can become a client
of mine invite them because my seminars
help them do whatever it is but I gotta
move on now because there's just no way
we could have done everybody around us
that this is impossible but I found a
few people that thought their part
wasn't impossible and then you know put
them all together with a higher mission
I mean just like for example date with
Destiny lifting these walls sounds like
a simple thing but they weigh everyone
knows how many thousands of pounds and
the you know covid you know you've got
all the problems of the breakdown of
being able to access something overseas
so I sent planes by people overseas
we're getting things we did all in less
than a week to be able to actually lift
those and then I told my Platinum
Partners which is my audience I said
listen it's a backstage pass you're not
going to see me you're going to see me
on screens and when people are giant
event on this size they'd watch me on
screens anyway but you'll be together
and then we surprised them and it was
like the music came up to a THX type
sound you lift it up and they were just
out of their mind you know so it's also
about creating experiences creating
moments for people that they won't
forget so you recently did a study with
Stanford University that shows that your
date with Destiny program is more
effective at impacting positively
depression than traditional
um medications and things like that why
is it so effective what tactics are you
giving people that is so transformative
I think it's 50 percent higher uh
positive emotion and 70 percent less
negative emotion which is pretty insane
it's actually even better than that I
got approached by Stanford during covid
because you know I adapted I want to try
and help people and all of a sudden you
know fifteen thousand person stadiums
they wouldn't let you have 10p 100
people in the stadium which is
ridiculous and so I eventually created
this giant 20 foot high 50 feet wide 25
000 square foot studio and we started
delivering to people all over the world
and so they had some people go through
date with Destiny two of which I think
were clinically depressed and they came
back with none of the symptoms and they
said you know what this is unbelievable
this is six days what data did he have
on this and I said well you know I got
zillions and zillions of you know
testimonials and stories but no one's
ever studied it so they said listen we
think this could be incredible and they
explained to me that right now if you go
across the meta studies on depression
which is out of control since coveted
obviously it's not covered as much as it
was the shutdowns and the fear and then
now the fear of people you know a lot of
people are afraid we're gonna all die
within 12 years of course is not true in
terms of the environment but all of this
fear has put people in a place where
there's no compelling future and that's
one of the things that we all need we
can all deal with the difficult today if
we have a compelling tomorrow but anyway
they decided they said look you know
right now the meta studies show that
across all the treatments both
combination of therapy and drugs the
only about 40 percent of people get
better and of that 40 60 don't get
better the average Improvement is 50 so
they're half as depressed as they were
some people 100 cure very few though
unfortunately and I say well that's not
much better than you know Placebo and
they said we agree and now I don't know
if you've seen the cover of Newsweek
talked about ssris you know they do not
uh change with depression and we're
still giving people these drugs it's
crazy because they don't have an
alternative so they came in and they put
a group together and the most successful
thing they've ever done was done by
Johns Hopkins two years ago where they
gave people a month of psilocybin and
cognitive therapy and of course Hillside
is not a legal drug but the bottom line
the results were unbelievable 53 percent
of the people uh a month later had no
symptoms of depression nothing like it
in the history of Psychiatry or
psychological approaches uh when they
did our tests the numbers were so
radical they sent them out blind to two
other organizations to be absolutely
certain it was accurate 100 of the
people not one person out of the group
still had depression 30 days later and
19 of people had suicidal ideation not
had suicidal ideation so this statement
Destiny I just completed they stood a
study for 754 people it'd be the largest
Landmark study I've ever done but they
really want to just show people what can
really be done and the answer to your
question is you know the way you
experience life you don't experience
life you experience the life you focus
on and what you focus on is based on
beliefs and values whatever you believe
you tend to see that you know if I said
to your audience right now close your
eyes uh before I close our eyes look
around the room and see everything
that's brown everything behind you
around you clothing anything on the
walls books anything and then say close
your eyes and tell me everything you saw
that was red people usually smile you
say a lot more Brown than red and I am
open their eyes and look for red and
guess what they find plenty of red well
you get what you look for so our beliefs
our values our rules that determine
whether we experience heaven or hell
inside they're all internal so it's like
we can't control the external world we
can influence it we have total control
of this internal world but most of us
don't know how so over those six days
people change their beliefs I don't tell
them what to believe they discover
what's limiting them they shift their
values to what's more consistent with
where they are and instead of being
pulled apart like you know I wanted to
make you know everybody happy and be
honest simultaneously I want to make a
billion dollars and sleep till noon
those create inner conflict we help
people resolve the inner conflicts
create a compelling future and be in
control of their own life and you're
right A year later they found 71
reduction in negative emotions 52 uh
Improvement in positive emotions a year
after doing this so the long impact of
this is what they're most impressed by
talk to me about what causes depression
because I know I talk a lot about
um in my own work when people ask you
know hey I'm really struggling what
should I do I actually would tell people
cognitive behavioral therapy if it's
really stuck then look at some of the
research on psilocybin which that's me
grappling with like what is that really
deep neurochemical entrenched Pathways
that people can get into with depression
and I've always been hesitant to to
cheapen the cause of depression by
saying oh you just have to think better
have better beliefs all that but when I
saw the results of the date with Destiny
research it made me think maybe I'm
making the problem harder than it really
is is it is it really that the the
entrenched depression is just the way
that people think or is there something
so real to trauma that it's sending you
into a neurochemical Cascade that you
can't get out of in any simple way
or rather than me answer that question
the head of the NIV HD or however they
pronounce it uh you know for 22 years I
don't have it in front of me here I wish
I had to give you the exact quote maybe
I'd give it to you you can post it
afterwards if you'd like but he said you
know in 22 years uh I spent whatever it
was 20 billion dollars did some of the
most interesting studies in the world
and we didn't move uh you know one
person out of depression the bottom line
is biochemistry is part of it but it is
related to what we focus on and what we
feel I can change your biochemistry in a
heartbeat close your eyes and have you
imagine one thing I can disrupt you put
produce fear close your eyes produce
something else we can produce a
parasympathetic effect a calming effect
so you cannot separate the mind and the
body you know together and so my
Approach is both I think you know from
going to events I believe in physiology
first but it isn't just biochemical it's
the way you move it's the way you
breathe it's the way you gesture if I
said to you there's a depressed person
behind curtain number one over here and
I'll give you a hundred thousand dollar
donation to your favorite charity if you
can describe their posture everyone
knows what's their posture like where's
their head
down down where's the shoulders slouch
are they breathing full or shallow
shallow that's right are they talking
loud or quiet soft fast or slow slow how
do you know because we've all practiced
this [__] at some point and then
depressed right but if you take that
same person I don't care what's going on
with them and you put their shoulders
back I know this sounds absurd and you
have them breathe different and they
speak at a different Tempo and they move
their biochemistry changes like that so
you gotta shift the way the body's been
used but then also you have to create a
compelling future this is the way I look
at it I look at this five to thrive let
me give you a little picture in your
head think of a triangle the first base
of three things the base of how you use
your body affects your depression or
your excitement if someone's depressed
or they're excited they use the body
differently they breathe differently
they move differently they speak
differently so you can make a
biochemical change just by changing the
body radically enough in the way you
move second is what you focus on
determines what you feel so if you're
supposed to meet your husband or wife at
7 pm for dinner and you get there and
they're not there boyfriend girlfriend
whoever what do you feel well some
people go I'm angry some people go I'm
worried well it's only seven you know
they'll say it's 7 30 and they've not
shown up they've not called they not
text well now it's gonna be going really
worried I'm really pissed off you know
it's 8 30 11 cold you know I'm full a
woman tells me right I didn't wait for
the bastard but my point is whether
you're angry or whether you're worried
those are biochemical effects but
they're all based on what you focused on
if you were really angry like they did
it again you know they're probably
screwing around with somebody else if
you imagine that in your mind you're
going to be upset but if you were
worried you thought what if they're in a
car accident and you're going to get a
very different biochemical effect but
people have habits of what they focus on
and those habits become your biochemical
habits as well and so they reinforce
each other it's not a one-way street so
that's why you know I really believe
exercise is one of the most important
elements pushing someone beyond their
normal Comfort zones physiologically
while you're simultaneously are working
on their head creating something so you
need strong physiology you need a really
clear Focus because you're only
experiencing what you focus on the human
brain is a distortion deletion and
generalization device your conscious
mind can only handle so many things at
once you're not thinking about your
clothing touching your skin or the you
know the sound of your heartbeat until I
mention it or let's say the you know the
sound of the in your ear of being able
to hear that heartbeat all those things
I have to call your attention to because
your brain is deleting most of what's
going on so it's not overwhelmed
consciously so we pay attention to a
small amount of things so if you're
really happy you're deleting all the
things that could piss you off or make
you worried if you're really worried
you're deleting all the things you could
be grateful or happy about so and we
tend to generalize Our Lives because
we're cognitive misers we don't want to
think things through so if you have
strong physiology strong Focus then the
third piece is meaning is what creates
emotion like if somebody says something
and you go they're disrespecting me or
they're challenging me or they're
coaching me or they're loving me
well whichever word you select for those
Sensations in your body your
biochemistry becomes and so you know
somebody might say oh you know this
happened to me because God's punishing
me or this happened to me because God's
challenging me or there's problems here
because it's a gift from God or someone
else says it has nothing to do with God
it's the fact that I've been a lazy
bastard right whatever it is you do in
your head there is a biochemical effect
so there's the body there's the focus
and there's language those three shape
how you feel moment to moment if you're
excited right now using your body your
focus and your language in a different
way than if you're pissed off than if
you're worried Etc but then what makes
you use these three once you understand
them is you need what's called a
compelling future you need something
that gets you to move forward and like I
feel so bad for the generation today you
know Z generation Millennials because so
many of them are now talking about not
even having children because of the
exaggeration of the problems we've
always had problems I remember we're
going to run out of oil where the the
ozone was going to be destroyed in the
1970s the cover of Time Magazine we've
always had these challenges and we've
always learned to adapt to these
challenges whatever those challenges may
be but people today think these problems
are forever because we've had some times
here that we've never had where we
literally shut down the whole world and
had people trapped in their homes and
that has an effect on people because
they don't have a compelling future so
you have to develop a committing future
and what allows you to do that finally
is what's under this triangle if there's
a circle think of a compounding future
and there's the power of identity
identity is who are you beyond the
problem there's something inside you
that's bigger than anything that's ever
happened to you that ever could happen
to you and tapping in and finding that
part of yourself is how you get someone
to have sustained strength so they have
a reason to do it a compelling Future
something they're going for and it's got
to be a compelling future about more
than just getting by that's not
compelling or surviving or doing okay
you know the secret to anyone who
succeeded is they found something they
care about more than themselves
something that has meaning for them that
they want to serve more than themselves
because as human beings if you get in
your head you're dead almost all of us
can find something to be upset about
that's the nature of the Mind the mind
is constantly dissecting things
separating comparing but when you look
at back and you take a look at
somebody's life and you look at the
totalitarian aspect of what am I here to
serve what am I here to give what am I
being called to for Life those are the
people that you know we're in
concentration camps and survived you
know if you read Man's Search for
meaning Victor Frankel one of my
favorite people on earth right it's the
entire piece was they had a will to live
because they had a compelling future
they said I'm going to live so that I
can tell the story so never happen again
they suffered the most intense suffering
but they made it through it because they
had a compelling future so identity and
compelling future are the ultimate
things that shape people and so what I
do is I really help people discover
those things and I do it through
immersion because a little step at a
time is like trying to learn a foreign
language you know most people took a
language in high school and college and
they can't speak it but you know if I
said I want to learn Italian and you
have the money and time and I dumped you
in Rome and said I'll see you in 90 days
90 days from now with no teacher you'll
speak fluently because you're in it
speaking it breathing it that's how we
learn best not one word at a time or uh
cat it's cat cat cat
right so I see that with my daughter so
the same things with humans so I do
total immersion training and I and I've
learned over the years that people want
a great education but they want to be
entertained first we're we're no longer
an Information Society because
information is too much right we're
drowning in information we're starving
through wisdom so what I've learned how
to do is how to capture people's
attention who wouldn't sit for a
three-hour movie for 10 11 12 hours a
day now even at a distance you know
because we do all these programs now
live in person we also do hybrid where
people all over the world are
participating and we're doing 12 hours a
day and they're out of their mind
entertained emotion juice everything
they want they're getting the best
education and while they're doing it
while they're there I have them do the
things that produce the change so when
they leave they've already made change
they already have momentum and that kind
of e-cubing is what I call it entertain
them educatum and Empower them that
process I've kind of refined over the
last 45 years this is my I'm about to in
my 46th year doing this I started when I
was three of course
right standard that's what I would have
guessed yeah so all right talk to there
are people in my life that I love very
much that I have repeated you back to
them a thousand times and they still
don't make that change yes how do you I
actually heard you at one point say look
effectively I'm a filtering mechanism
I'm not worried about the people that
aren't prepared to make that change I
want to find the people who are and give
them the tools that they need
is that have I understood that correctly
do you just sort of accept that some
people are never going to do it or is it
just immersion or whatever that is
missing and you could get even those
people to make a dramatic change yeah if
you can get them inside it's the latter
right no you know all I'm saying is I
don't go running around you know
imposing my view on everyone right uh
when I was in my 20s I'd before I'd go
to Denny's in the middle of the night
should I help somebody in these two
stories I see some poor guy at the
counter go Hey listen I got these tools
I can help you I mean that's how crazy I
was so I think you're probably referring
to that like no if people raise their
hand I'm here but uh but people drag
people all the time or pull people who
don't want to be there and you know
they're going to be there for 12 hours
in a day and I address it right away but
usually within 20 or 30 minutes people
are so engaged that they're they can't
even believe it they're enjoying it's
not what they think they think it's
going to be I don't know what they think
it's going to be sitting in a room
someone just talking at you and that's
not what this is this is an experience
but yes they need to have experiences a
belief is a poor substitute for an
experience so you can tell somebody
something and they can nod their head
and cognitively understand it that's
very different than the visceral
experience of getting it in your body
where it starts happening automatically
and just think of the learning process
or even mastering you know you're you're
a person like myself we always looking
to master different things how do you
master things well first first step is
cognitive understanding right you
understand how it works and that and
four dollars will get you a Starbucks
right because you know understanding
doesn't do anything but you have to get
as a first step and most people are oh I
already know this I know this because
they understand it if you're not doing
it you don't own it you don't experience
it so second step is enough repetition
of what you understand with enough
emotion and we produce emotion using
music and movement and everything else
and asking questions and have people
remember in closed eye processes because
you know if I asked you where were you
on 9 11 almost everyone on Earth can
tell you even if they're not American
where they were and they first heard
about the towers coming down who was
around and what they saw whatever to
wherever you're on 811 no one can tell
you unless they had something really
special happen that day because
information without emotion is barely
retained so when you're telling your
friends that's not going to do squat
they're going to not do that even if
they understand or go that's interesting
there isn't in the emotional shift
because people only change in an altered
state you know most people you know
think uh you know hypnosis is something
that people do to them most people are
living in a hypnotized State you know if
you watch somebody you're driving your
car and then something catches your
attention you kind of focus on it for a
while and then also you go holy [__]
who's been driving this car for quite a
few minutes right well you're in a
trance or you go to a you know to a
hotel and somebody pushes the elevator
and it's already lit up and they push
the button if I could get five bucks for
every time this happened right they're
just in a trance they're just going
through the automatic motions for most
people about 48 of what they do science
says every day is automated so they're
not really thinking clearly they're not
open to what's really possible so we're
doing is we break that up by doing
something with such immersion and so
then the third step is you do it
physically quickly and then it gets in
your body so then it's like confidence
is tying your shoes like you know I can
get up and do twelve fifteen thousand
fifty thousand you know these days we
got a million people that did my last
five day seminar one million people over
a million people so it's like it's like
the size the items gets larger and
larger and larger and I've developed
stronger and stronger skills to do it
but it's also getting it into people's
bodies because like a tying your shoes
you've done it so many times you don't
have to think about it it happens well
I've done so many versions of things for
45 years that you know it's like when I
go to have you know a challenge
somebody's facing I got 50 answers and
they're already in my body I don't have
to think it through and try to figure it
out while they're away while I'm wasting
their time I can just deliver the result
but that's what makes the master
something and so you need immersion and
so do you uh does it require hunger yes
but hunger can be awakened some of you
have no hunger I have no interest but
then they see something that really
excites them or they go through a
painful enough moment or they get an
environment where they see what's
possible and that's what happens in our
environments
okay so let me run an idea by you I I
will frequently get parents ask me who
they just their kids are really
struggling they don't know what to do
and
um
I always give them here's the backstop
reality if you absolutely must get a
change in your child's behavior I'm
going to tell you what will work you're
probably not going to do it but I am
convinced it will work every time uh
you're gonna have to kidnap them you're
going to take them somewhere remote and
you're going to put them in a group of
people in in the company of a group of
people that they respect and to earn
their respect they're going to have to
change their behaviors into what you
want them to do so assuming that you
want them to do something that's
actually good for them uh stop doing
drugs stop wasting time living in fear
whatever and you put them in that group
and they're going to have to conform to
the the core values of that group which
you will have you know brought them
together for that reason that they have
positive uplifting core values but the
key mechanism for me is that to gain
acceptance from these people that are
worthy of respect they will have to
conform but I think they have to want
their respect do you think there's any
of that or on mass can people do this in
isolation
well of course people can do it in
isolation people do it all the time in
isolation your strategy is a really good
strategy and uh you know I have five
kids and five grandkids
um my second youngest boy
um uh had an experience where when he
was
16 he got caught up you know he went to
school at lay Rose in Switzerland an
amazing school he wanted to go so badly
I had the contacts I thought man if I
could have done this gone to school his
roommate was the king of oman's son who
had at 16 years old or 15 years old
actually they were 15 at the time he
already had 14 cars every kind of
Ferrari everybody can imagine a
different Rolex or you know 50 000 watch
each day and so my son who I said you're
going to work your ass off during the
summer to help pay for this here's how
it's going to work my son then uh kind
of adapted to that environment and
unbeknownst to me the woman in my life
at that time gave him a credit card and
at 15 years old he spent over a hundred
thousand dollars competing with the
kings and queens kids well and started
doing drugs you know light drugs or you
know smoking dope and so forth pot uh
gained over a hundred pounds and I I
when I first went to see him in
Switzerland they won't come for the
first three months they're very strict
they want the kids to adapt and he'd
gained like 25 pounds and I pulled the
counselor aside and said listen this
isn't right and he's like no this is
initial transitions we see this all the
time he's going to play rugby he's gonna
lose weight well over the next year and
a half he gained over 100 pounds so I
got him out of the school I brought him
back to the U.S and sure enough within a
very short time I had to do an
intervention on him and because one of
his friends told me what was really
going on with him and so I did the
intervention he's not my blood child so
he said you know I'm gonna I'm gonna
call my real father who you know was a
nice Man Who provided you know his
physical sperm but had not been around
most of his life I've been you know I've
been raising Josh at that point since he
was five years old really painful
situation but if you're a father you
gotta do whatever it takes and so I knew
what he needed was what you described he
needed an environment where he had to
earn everything because unfortunately
his mother and I were divided she was
giving everything on the side so he had
no sense of inner Pride it's like when
people talk about self-esteem I hate the
term it's so overused but self-esteem
does not come from what other people say
to you someone can tell you your whole
life you're beautiful you're strong or
smart and you cannot trust yourself or
not think so someone can tell you're a
piece of crap and you go I'll show you
and some part of you it grows as a
result so it has nothing to do with
people say to us self-esteem is earned
by yourself for yourself it comes from
doing something that's incredibly
difficult and no one else knows it you
know it and that's why you have esteem
for yourself so you had none of that so
I got him in an environment and you know
he said you can't make me do anything
and you know he was 17 almost 16 at this
point and I said you know as long as I'm
your father I can make you do anything I
put him in this environment where they
took away everything cut his hair and he
had earn it the right to use salt and
pepper he had to learn that he had to be
responsible for things it wasn't so much
respect it was pure
punishment reward you know it's like
real basic conditioning in the very
beginning now my son is a very smart kid
he's an adult now he's completely
transformed this is 20 years ago
but just to get the owner of this
facility say I've run this for 20 years
I've never seen a faster turnaround than
your son he's obviously your son he was
applying all these tools he's helping
other kids he's being amazing and so
normally they stay there for a year and
they've only been there two months and
of course I missed him his mother's
crying and so we brought him back and
within a month he was doing drugs and
and stealing from us so I put him back
in the environment for a year he lost
120 pounds he's never gained it back he
developed a different set of value
systems for himself and Josh today you
know 25 years later I have two
grandchildren from him he's my partner
in several businesses we've taken from
zero to four billion dollars to give you
an idea I mean and I couldn't be more
close to him but it was one of the more
difficult times so yes sometimes you got
to do an environmental change because
the environment they're in reinforces
the behavior they're in the beliefs
they're in the way they live that
they're in and that's not an easy thing
to do but so what you're talking about
is an extreme a lot of people do it with
things like uh Outward Bound right it's
a great piece how do people think
they're kids who are you know wasting
away and they put them in an environment
where they're in the in nature and they
can't survive without taking on the
challenges and the people around them
and so that's another shaping device
like that so I'm a big believer in
immersion where someone has to grow
where it's not a should grow it's a have
to grow there's no choice because you
know when I work with people what I
basically do if you watch me is I ask
questions I do different things but I
basically put the walls on the side and
behind them come in and in and there's
only one way forward and magically they
move that direction that's my job right
so I know how to do that in lots of
different ways they don't require me
taking somebody off for you know a year
and setting them aside but I I just want
to point out that in some cases with
drug use and things of that nature your
approach would be a very good approach
it's not necessary you could take
somebody for a few days aside and put
them in a new environment and have them
completely rewire how they are because
remember everything is conditioning so
the habits you have the way you think
the way you feel the way you perceive
life is going conditioning any condition
pattern can be changed with new
conditioning and it doesn't take as long
if you know what you're doing you know
they did research at UC Irvine years ago
and I don't support this research but
this is what they did they take a monkey
and they take down four of his fingers
and then they just bend his finger
manually ten thousand times so if you do
this right now if the people at home say
if they say well your finger how'd you
do that how do I just thought it well
well when they untape the monkey's
finger guess what he does this for no
good reason it's conditioned imagine
every time you bend the finger you're
putting a thread of connection between
neurons nerve cells in the brain it's
not fancy just think of nerve cells do
it again two strings ten thousand times
you're wired right well some people are
going on the way to work every day and
they get off in the same on-ramp but one
day they're on the phone and they don't
need to go that off ramp and they get
off on it automatically right they're
like a monkey they've been trained but
what UC Irvine found is they could
interrupt this pattern and they could
create a new pattern and it didn't take
ten thousand bins to do it if they
stimulated the pleasure center of the
brain if they stand in the pleasure
Center Wally bent the finger they got
like a hundred strings of connection so
two dozen of these produce what they
used to get from ten thousand so I use
that principle and what I do that's why
people enjoy it so much it's not a pain
driven experience it's a pleasure driven
experience because listen your brain's
going to avoid Pain any way it can it's
going to move towards pleasure well if I
can get you to link pleasure to what you
need to do so it doesn't take willpower
look willpower never lasts I got a lot
of willpower I know you do too but
there's a limit to willpower there's no
limit to when you link pleasure to
something how far your body mind and
soul will push towards it so it's really
changing what you link pain and pleasure
to that creates lasting change
if you want to learn more about this
topic check out this interview I work
out roughly
um 45 minutes sometimes an hour
sometimes I might be able to get out a
bit faster sometimes I have to get out
faster if I've got a lot going on for
the day but that is the basic cycle put
in the work you will definitely get the
results